docs: Add Actor task publication guide (#2582)
apify/apify-docs: sources/platform/actors/publishing/publish-task.mdx

---
title: Publish your Actor task
description: Publish a saved Actor task as a public use-case landing page on Apify Store by completing the display information, input, and dataset schema sections.
slug: /actors/publishing/publish-task
sidebar_position: 2
---

> Actor tasks are useful for saving pre-configured inputs for your Actors. Making your tasks public can improve discoverability and explain use cases of your Actor with real-world examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Actor tasks are shareable, pre-configured inputs for your Actors. Published tasks get their own public landing pages that showcase real-world use cases and improve discoverability through search engines and AI agents.
```
Simplified the intro to lead with the benefit.

> Each public task is exposed through a landing page that shows users what the Actor does, what is the input, and what output to expect. Public tasks also appear in your Actor’s **Examples** tab. This helps people searching for or asking AI agents for a specific phrase or use case discover your Actor. Publishing tasks can lead to more page views, more runs, and, for monetized Actors, more revenue.

Reviewer 2: Each public task is exposed through a landing page that shows users _example_ what the Actor does, what is the input, and what output to expect. Public tasks also appear in your Actor’s **Examples** tab. This helps people searching for or asking AI agents for a specific phrase or use case discover your Actor. Publishing tasks can lead to more page views, more runs, and, for monetized Actors, more revenue.

> Each public task is exposed through a landing page that shows users what the Actor does, what is the input, and what output to expect. Public tasks also appear in your Actor’s **Examples** tab. This helps people searching for or asking AI agents for a specific phrase or use case discover your Actor. Publishing tasks can lead to more page views, more runs, and, for monetized Actors, more revenue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A published task gets its own public landing page that shows users what the Actor does, what inputs it uses, and what output to expect. Public tasks also appear in your Actor’s **Examples** tab. This helps people searching for or asking AI agents for a specific phrase or use case discover your Actor. Publishing tasks can lead to more page views, more runs, and, for monetized Actors, more revenue.
```
Reworded for a more active, direct tone. Introduced "public landing page" on first use to establish the term for the rest of the doc.

This guide walks you through the publication process on the **Publication** tab and the steps to make a task public.

Before you publish a task, your Actor itself must already be public. See [Publish your Actor](./publish.mdx) for the prerequisites that apply at the Actor level.

:::note Prerequisites

- A published Actor that you own or maintain.
- A [saved task](../running/tasks.md) with a complete input configuration.

> - An [input schema](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition/input-schema) and [dataset schema](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition/dataset-schema) defined on the parent Actor.

Reviewer 3: Seems weird to have "parent Actor" here. I wouldn't know what that means.

> - An [input schema](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition/input-schema) and [dataset schema](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition/dataset-schema) defined on the parent Actor.

Reviewer 2: Also at least one dataset schema view?

:::

## What tasks to publish

> Not every saved task deserves a public landing page. Focus on tasks that represent a real use case someone would search for and that show your Actor solving a specific problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Focus on tasks that represent a real use case someone would search for and that show your Actor solving a specific problem. Not every saved task needs a public landing page.
```
Flip the order.

### Demonstrate a specific job-to-be-done

> The best tasks target a concrete goal that a user can relate to immediately. Instead of publishing a generic "default configuration" task, publish one that answers a question someone might type into a search engine or LLM client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best tasks aim to solve a problem a user actually has. Instead of publishing a generic "default configuration" task, publish one that answers a question someone might type into a search engine or AI agent.
```
Removed "concrete" (vague qualifier) and reinforced the practicality of the task. Consider "AI agent" instead of "LLM client."

For example, if you maintain a Google Maps scraper Actor:

| Weak task | Strong task |
| --- | --- |
| Google Maps - default config | Find dentists in San Francisco with reviews |

> | Test run 2 | Extract restaurant emails for local marketing |

Reviewer 2: Other examples for consideration showcasing e-commerce and AI use cases:
- Monitor Amazon product prices and reviews for market research
- Track stock prices and news on Yahoo Finance

| All fields enabled | Compare gym ratings across New York boroughs |

Each strong task focuses on a specific industry, location, or workflow. A user searching for "dentist data San Francisco" is far more likely to land on a page with that exact framing.

### Target search traffic and AI discovery

> Each landing page is indexed by search engines and includes a markdown (`.md`) version that LLMs can access directly, making your task discoverable through AI-powered search and AI assistants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each landing page is indexed by search engines and includes a markdown (`.md`) version that large language models (LLMs) can access directly, making your task discoverable through AI-powered search and AI assistants.
```
Define LLM for the first time mentioned.

Reviewer: Or remove LLMs and go with AI agents?

Author: Changed to AI agents 👍 good point

> Think of each task as a keyword-targeted landing page. Consider:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Think of each task as a keyword-targeted landing page:
```
Fold it into one sentence and let the colon do the work.

- Location-specific tasks - "Scrape real estate listings in Austin" rather than "Scrape real estate listings".
- Industry-specific tasks - "Monitor competitor pricing for electronics" rather than "Monitor competitor pricing".

> - Workflow-specific tasks - "Export LinkedIn company data to Google Sheets" rather than "Export LinkedIn data".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Location-specific tasks: "Scrape real estate listings in Austin" rather than "Scrape real estate listings"
- Industry-specific tasks: "Monitor competitor pricing for electronics" rather than "Monitor competitor pricing"
- Workflow-specific tasks: "Export LinkedIn company data to Google Sheets" rather than "Export LinkedIn data"
```
Use a colon instead. Remove end period.

The more specific the task, the less competition it has in search results and the more relevant it is to the person who finds it.

:::info Show the range of your Actor

If your Actor supports multiple use cases, publish a task for each one. A web scraping Actor might have tasks for lead generation, price monitoring, and content aggregation. Each task demonstrates a different capability and attracts a different audience.

:::

## Make your task public

Once your task runs reliably and produces the output you want users to see, publish it from Apify Console.

1. From your task's page in Apify Console, open the **Publication** tab.
1. Complete the 3 sections: **Display information**, **Input**, and **Dataset schema**.
1. Click **Publish task**.

> ![Publication tab on a task page](./images/public-tasks/task-publication-tab.webp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Publication tab on a task page.](./images/public-tasks/task-publication-tab.webp)
```
Alt text descriptions should end with a period for a natural reading experience (pause) between prose and image descriptions.

### Display information

This section controls how your task appears on the public task landing page and in search results.

There are 3 fields to fill:

- **SEO task title** - shown as the heading on the landing page and as the page title in search results.
- **SEO description** - appears under the title on the landing page and as the meta description in search results.

> - **Use case** - pick the option that best matches your task's job-to-be-done. The list is curated by Apify and offers sub-categories of the use cases supported by the parent Actor.

Reviewer 3: Same here for the "parent Actor". Also, might be worth mentioning that those categories aren't connected to store categories (yet?)

> - **Use case** - pick the option that best matches your task's job-to-be-done. The list is curated by Apify and offers sub-categories of the use cases supported by the parent Actor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **SEO task title:** shown as the heading on the landing page and as the page title in search results.
- **SEO description:**  appears under the title on the landing page and as the meta description in search results.
- **Use case:**  pick the option that best matches your task's job-to-be-done. The list is curated by Apify and includes sub-categories of the use cases your Actor supports.
```
Use colons to separate the task title from the description. Agreed on the parent Actor language; it seems like an internal language.

You can live preview how the fields propagate on the right (they update as you type):

> - **Page Preview** - how the landing page will look to visitors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Page Preview:** how the landing page will look to visitors.
```
Use a colon instead.

> - **SERP Preview** - how the page will appear in Google search results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ****SERP Preview:** how the page will appear in search engine results pages (SERPs).
```
Use a colon instead. Consider defining the term “SERP Preview” in the context of the task.

> ![Display information section with page and SERP previews](./images/public-tasks/task-display-information.webp)

Reviewer 2: Missing Slug field

> ![Display information section with page and SERP previews](./images/public-tasks/task-display-information.webp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Display information section with page and SERP previews.](./images/public-tasks/task-display-information.webp)
```
Alt text descriptions should end with a period for a natural reading experience (pause) between prose and image descriptions.

:::tip Title format

Frame the title as the user's job-to-be-done, not as a description of the Actor's mechanics. A good title combines an action, a target, and a qualifier.

Good examples:

- Track competitors' store locations
- Get a local B2B leads list
- Verify business emails from Google Maps

Avoid titles like "Google Maps scraper - task 3" or "Test task" that describe the Actor instead of the user's goal.

:::

### Input

The Input section controls which fields from your task's input configuration appear on the public landing page. By default, every field defined in your task input is selected. Deselect any field that is not relevant to the task's use case.

This control affects display only. The task itself always runs with the full input configuration, regardless of which fields are selected here.

> ![Input section with field selection](./images/public-tasks/task-input-section.webp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Input section with field selection.](./images/public-tasks/task-input-section.webp)
```
Alt text descriptions should end with a period for a natural reading experience (pause) between prose and image descriptions.

Use this section to:

- Show only the fields that demonstrate how the task is configured for its specific use case.
- Hide configuration fields that are not relevant to the task and would confuse first-time users.

:::info Secret fields are protected automatically

> All input fields with `"isSecret": true` in the Actor's [input schema](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition/input-schema) are automatically masked. Their values are never displayed on the landing page or included in the copy other users receive. Verify that sensitive fields are properly marked as secret in the input schema before publishing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All input fields with `"isSecret": true` in the Actor's [input schema](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition/input-schema) are automatically masked and never shown on the landing page. Before publishing, confirm sensitive fields are marked as secret.
```
Consider a more concise way to express the same idea.

:::

### Dataset schema

> The Dataset schema section selects which view of the parent Actor's dataset is rendered on the landing page. Each view organizes the output fields differently. Pick the one that best matches the task's use case.

Reviewer 3: Same here for "parent Actor"

> The Dataset schema section selects which view of the parent Actor's dataset is rendered on the landing page. Each view organizes the output fields differently. Pick the one that best matches the task's use case.

Reviewer: Question: Is the dataset schema view automatically selected when only one view is defined, or does the user still need to manually select it?

Author: Nope, the dataset view is not automatically selected. Even when only one view is defined, the user must manually pick it from the dropdown.

> ![Dataset schema view selection](./images/public-tasks/task-dataset-schema.webp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Dataset schema view selection.](./images/public-tasks/task-dataset-schema.webp)
```
Alt text descriptions should end with a period for a natural reading experience (pause) between prose and image descriptions.

> For more on configuring views, see [Dataset schema](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition/dataset-schema).

Reviewer 2: JC opened pull request with docs update, if approved this would be probably better to use: https://github.com/apify/apify-docs/pull/2554

Author: It's still the same page, just updated. So this link will lead to the page once approved and merged.

## Task landing page

Each published task gets its own standalone landing page on the [Apify website](https://apify.com). This page is publicly accessible, indexed by search engines, and readable by AI agents. Published tasks also appear in the **Examples** tab of the parent Actor's detail page, linking visitors directly to the landing page.

> ![Examples tab on the Actor detail page showing published tasks](./images/public-tasks/actor-examples-tab.webp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Examples tab on the Actor detail page showing published tasks.](./images/public-tasks/actor-examples-tab.webp)
```
Alt text descriptions should end with a period for a natural reading experience (pause) between prose and image descriptions.

### URL structure

The landing page URL is built from your username, Actor name, and task name. For example:

```text
https://apify.com/john/google-maps-scraper/examples/find-dentists-san-francisco
```

Keep the task name short, descriptive, and focused on the use case keyword.

### Landing page content

> ![Task landing page with title, input fields, and output preview](./images/public-tasks/task-landing-page.webp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Task landing page with title, input fields, and output preview.](./images/public-tasks/task-landing-page.webp)
```
Alt text descriptions should end with a period for a natural reading experience (pause) between prose and image descriptions.

The landing page displays the information you configured in the [Display information](#display-information), [Input](#input), and [Dataset schema](#dataset-schema) sections:

- The **SEO task title** and **SEO description** at the top of the page.
- The selected **input fields** with their configured values, so visitors can see exactly how the task is set up.
- A preview of the **Dataset schema fields** based on the dataset view you selected.
- A call-to-action button that lets visitors try the task immediately.
- Generic sections explaining how Apify works and how to integrate it.

### What happens when a visitor tries the task

> When a visitor clicks the call-to-action button, Apify creates a new task under their account with the same input configuration. The visitor gets their own independent copy - they can modify it, run it, and manage it without affecting your original task. You don't need to worry about other users consuming your resources or altering your configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a visitor clicks the call-to-action button, Apify creates a new task under their account with the same input configuration. The visitor gets their own independent copy. They can modify, run, and manage it without affecting your original task. You don't need to worry about other users consuming your resources or altering your configuration.
```
Remove the faux em dash, remove redundant "it,"  and use two short sentences instead.

## Next steps

> - Set up [monetization](./monetize/index.mdx) for the parent Actor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set up [monetization](./monetize/index.mdx) for your Actor.
```
Less jargon.

---
title: Publish your Actor task
description: Publish a saved Actor task as a public use-case landing page on Apify Store by completing the display information, input, and dataset schema sections.
slug: /actors/publishing/publish-task
sidebar_position: 2
---

Actor tasks are shareable, pre-configured inputs for your Actors. Published tasks get their own public landing pages that showcase real-world use cases and improve discoverability through search engines and AI agents.

> A published task gets its own public landing page that shows users an example of what the Actor does, what inputs it uses, and what output to expect. Public tasks also appear in your Actor’s **Examples** tab. This helps people searching for or asking AI agents for a specific phrase or use case discover your Actor. Publishing tasks can lead to more page views, more runs, and, for monetized Actors, more revenue.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[Actor tasks](/platform/actors/running/tasks) are shareable, pre-configured inputs for your Actors. [Publishing a task](#publish-your-tasks) creates a public landing page that shows what the Actor does, what inputs it uses, and what output to expect. Public tasks also appear in your Actor's **Examples** tab, which helps users discover your Actor through search engines and AI agents. For monetized Actors, this can lead to more page views, more runs, and more revenue.
```

Reviewer 4: My suggestion somewhat clashes with @jgagne's, feel free to discard or combine. Please keep the links, they are my main point.

Author: +1 for the simplification. I'm cool with the suggestion. Cheers!

This guide walks you through the publication process on the **Publication** tab and the steps to make a task public.

Before you publish a task, your Actor itself must already be public. See [Publish your Actor](./publish.mdx) for the prerequisites that apply at the Actor level.

:::note Prerequisites

- A published Actor that you own or maintain.
- A [saved task](../running/tasks.md) with a complete input configuration.
- An [input schema](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition/input-schema) and at least one [dataset schema view](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition/dataset-schema) defined on the Actor.

> :::

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites

Before you publish a task, make sure you have:

- A [published Actor](./publish.mdx) that you own or maintain.
- A [saved task](/platform/actors/running/tasks) with a complete input configuration.
- An [input schema](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition/input-schema) and at least one [dataset schema view](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition/dataset-schema) defined on the Actor.
```

Reviewer 4: This format is used throughout our docs

## What tasks to publish

Focus on tasks that represent a real use case someone would search for and that show your Actor solving a specific problem. Not every saved task needs a public landing page.

> ### Demonstrate a specific job-to-be-done

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Focus on a real use case
```

Reviewer 4: Is there a specific reason to use the phrase "job-to-be-done"?

Author: Nope, there is no, Like the "real" suggestion 👍

The best tasks aim to solve a problem a user actually has. Instead of publishing a generic "default configuration" task, publish one that answers a question someone might type into a search engine or AI agent.

> For example, if you maintain a Google Maps scraper, Amazon scraper and Yahoo scraper Actors:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For example, if you maintain Google Maps, Amazon, and Yahoo scraper Actors:
```

> | Weak task | Strong task |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| ❌ Weak task | ✅ Strong task |
```

Reviewer 4: This is the most minorest issue, but looks nice :)

### Target search traffic and AI discovery

Each landing page is indexed by search engines and includes a markdown (`.md`) version that AI agents can access directly, making your task discoverable through AI-powered search and AI assistants.

Think of each task as a keyword-targeted landing page:

- Location-specific tasks: "Scrape real estate listings in Austin" rather than "Scrape real estate listings"
- Industry-specific tasks: "Monitor competitor pricing for electronics" rather than "Monitor competitor pricing"
- Workflow-specific tasks: "Export LinkedIn company data to Google Sheets" rather than "Export LinkedIn data"

The more specific the task, the less competition it has in search results and the more relevant it is to the person who finds it.

:::info Show the range of your Actor

If your Actor supports multiple use cases, publish a task for each one. A web scraping Actor might have tasks for lead generation, price monitoring, and content aggregation. Each task demonstrates a different capability and attracts a different audience.

:::

> ## Make your task public

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Publish your tasks
```

Once your task runs reliably and produces the output you want users to see, publish it from Apify Console.

1. From your task's page in Apify Console, open the **Publication** tab.

> 1. Complete the 3 sections: **Display information**, **Input**, and **Dataset schema**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Complete the three sections: [Display information](#display-information), [Input](#input), and [Dataset schema](#dataset-schema).
```

Reviewer 4: Added links instead of just text

1. Click **Publish task**.

![Publication tab on a task page.](./images/public-tasks/task-publication-tab.webp)

### Display information

This section controls how your task appears on the public task landing page and in search results.

> There are 3 fields in this section:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
There are three fields in this section:
```

- **Slug:** the URL-friendly name used in the task's landing page URL.
- **SEO task title:** shown as the heading on the landing page and as the page title in search results.
- **SEO description:** appears under the title on the landing page and as the meta description in search results.

You can live preview how the fields propagate on the right (they update as you type):

- **Page Preview:** how the landing page will look to visitors.
- **SERP Preview:** how the page will appear in search engine results pages (SERPs).

![Display information section with page and SERP previews.](./images/public-tasks/task-display-information.webp)

:::tip Title format

> Frame the title as the user's job-to-be-done, not as a description of the Actor's mechanics. A good title combines an action, a target, and a qualifier.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Frame the title as the user's goal, not as a description of the Actor's mechanics. A good title combines an action, a target, and a qualifier.
```
